# Oscillating-Avian

This is a re-upload of a Game Boy Advance game I made as part of a class assignment in the summer of 2017. I wrote it in C.


NOTES:

Most of the display work is done through Mode 3 and DMA (for the image, background, etc) as per the scope of this assignment. This is much more demanding on the GBA than doing sprite-based graphics, so some performance considerations were made to keep the game running smoothly.


The vertical pipe obstacles are generated by DMA'ing a green pipe, and a trailing blue background color behind it constantly to keep the pipe moving to the left while "erasing" its previous position from the framebuffer.


The score text is only drawn after every "screen wipe" by the pipes rather than every frame. The score text draws pixel-by-pixel and would have been too expensive to re-draw every frame without slowdown or complicated optimization.


Because the GBA doesn't have native floating point capability, the bird's velocity is only updated on certain frames as to allow for a kind of "fractional" change in velocity over time. This means that gravity and movement input only "kick in" at certain intervals. I definitely would have implemented input buffering of some kind if I had more people playtest this before completion (it really is quite jarring)


I cannot release the source code of this project due to school policy, but I have included the original readme and compiled gba file as part of this re-upload. It can be run on most Game Boy Advance emulators.